

Peter

incident 1162

Peter Davidsonpeterfdavidson@hotmail.com  Spoke on 3.23.17 for 45 min, 8:26 pm - 9:10/11-- 212-920-7436

Aug 20, 2014 -- He thought it was open and shut. The guy hit him, the prosecutor's office never took it seriously, never interviewed Peter. Peter did provide a statement. The driver's attorney delayed, and delayed, and delayed. It took about a year for any real progress,

He broke his nose, injured neck and knee -- HE SHOULD HAVE GONE TO THE HOSPITAL -- DISPENSE THIS ADVICE, a lot of injuries surfaced later.


only 25 times since in 3 years  --
The police looked at the bike and said, "no damange, just a couple of paint chips"  He did get the bike inspected to prove damange. ADVISE: put together a spreadsheet, write down everything you remember, track every doctor's visit, every hour you miss work, etc. Miles to drive to doctor's appt. Recover damages. Shows that you put the thought into, and can demonstrate the actual damage.

Peter's boss was cool, but

Do differently:

1. Go to your normal doctor, don't delay telling them about things like an arm getting numb, etc.
2. Report the stuff as it occurs; disclose it
   -- so focused on the big injuries, but report them ALL

===

Initially had one that specialized in bike law.

One of the big advantages and what really saved him was the data off the cycling computer . . . but any data that can corroborate is VERY VERY CRITICAL. Don't delete it. Let it run. It provides very specific time stamps and becomes material. For instance, he was able to get exact time, pin the guy to the cell phone call. The driver said the cyclist chased him to assault him, but the Garmin data, proved it was all a lie.

GET THE NAME OF Witnesses

While the case was pending: don't go talking to everyone, don't post stuff on FB.



===

Don't have a public FB page.

===

Anything that is ever said . . .


====


THE OTHER THING THAT IS VALUABLE == NO MATTER HOW ANGRY YOUR ARE, YELLING AT A POLICE OFFICER IS COUNTER-PRODUCTIVE. The officer may write "unhelpful things" about your behavior. The other guy's attorney will use that to say, "He was an angry militant cyclist... "  The officer might be less motivated to search for the driver, etc.

Don't just give them the data, walk them through it.

----


2 years

===

DC Rainmaker -- what to do in a bike crash, look at his site, maybe a phone call. MAKE AN APP FOR THIS????


==

The day it happened, he wrote down EVERYTHING he could remember. Don't write down stuff that isn't true, of course.

GET A LAWYER DAY ONE!  Most will be looking at the degree of injuries,

Tell cops facts, not opinions. NOT "I think that asshole was on the cell phone"  --> "I saw the driver talking on the phone"

Get medical attention. Get a lawyer. Write it all down. Track all your lost time from work, every doctor's visit. etc.

BE SURE TO RIDE WITH A CELL PHONE












