http://www.timetriallingforum.co.uk/index.php?showtopic=96203&hl=





http://www.bikeforums.net/advocacy-safety/986665-site-report-aggressive-drivers.html

I am the developer of The Close Call Database for Cycling. I'd like to make a few points, and respond to some comments above.

The site is not a novel idea. It's occurred to many people and some have wished for it. Because of that people see the potential and they are registering in large numbers from all over the world. This simple post has driven registrations, that's how I found it. So what's new here is not the idea, but that something is finally being done about it.

The primary goal of the site is to stop dangerous motorists that are serial offenders. Those drivers don't seem to think like you and I do, but that doesn't mean that are irrational. They are making calculated choices and repeating their actions because it is somehow gratifying to them and they think they can get away with it.  Within a few years, I hope that on-bike cameras are cheap and ubiquitous, because those will help.






LINKS

http://road.cc/content/news/110588-cyclist-collision-database-could-save-lives-reduce-injuries-says-medical-charity


According to Barts Charity: “There is evidence that reduction in mortality is due to improvements in trauma and emergency care at major trauma centres such as the Royal London hospital, rather than effective pre-collision interventions.”  [HECK, STOP HIT AND RUNS! People die when 911 is not called]






Hi, am the developer of the site. This post spawned a lot of traffic and registrations so I was curious to see what was being said.  I am pressed for time but would like to make a few comments.

First, FBinNY has a legitimate concern, "It could be a useful tool, but I don't expect it will be. Unfortunately, as so often happens with similar stuff, "aggressive" will be defined down and the site will be cluttered with minor offenses posted by "cyclists' rights" types who find almost any driver behavior offensive." I have eye on that issue already and I think I will introduce a process flow to help users categorize the reports. I think over time, users will start to understand how things are prioritized and why.  People have adopted the site so quickly that I am a bit behind on that issue but it is one of my highest priorities.

There is one comment here, however, that I find disturbing;  it's in the vein of Paul Krugman's style (why criticize an idea on its merits when you can simply recast it into a vulgar form and then attack that concept instead):

"the idea of internet sites for people to report on the bad behavior of their fellow citizens doesn't really seem representative of the sort of society in which I'd prefer to live."

In reply, I say that the sort of society in which I'd prefer to live doesn't include someone nearly killing me by swerving a 4,000 pound vehicle two feet into the bike lane at 60 mph in order to "send a message" that cyclists don't belong on the road. And I am trying to do something about that.

Thoughtful suggestions/criticisms/ideas are welcome, but I just don't have time to circle back to forums all over the world and would appreciate them at -> closecalldatabase@gmail.com




======

http://www.bicycling.com/news/advocacy/close-call-database-tracks-hostile-drivers#comment-1791618245

• Reply•Share ›
Avatar
RunningWriting • 6 days ago
It could be a good idea, but is there a potential for misuse? Could someone file a report just to get back at someone, for an act that has nothing to do with traffic or bikes?
5  • Reply•Share ›
Avatar
sykerocker  RunningWriting • 5 days ago
There's always that chance. But the odds of someone working up a campaign against one specific driver over a long period of time would be slim. The amount of effort it would take would be unproductive, and, as long as the reporting cyclist has to list his/her name, etc. to the report gives a good chance of it being self-correcting. If you've got (for example) 15 claims against one driver, all made by the same cyclist, you start to wonder what's going on. The thought of "vendetta" would quickly come to mind, the only question being who's got the vendetta against who.
3  • Reply•Share ›
Avatar
Close Call Database  RunningWriting • a day ago
I manage the site. These are not anonymous reports. The people that file them must stand behind them. Every Incident Report goes through a review process. I usually communicate directly with the author of every single report. No email notifications of an Incident Report will ever be sent without a review. That process will become more stringent, not less stringent, over time. Frivolous reports, nuisance reports, or reports that simply lack enough information to be meaningful are simply rejected unless corrected and amended -- two reports already have been rejected because they lacked sufficient information.

This issue -- and many others -- were anticipated long before the first line of code was written.
 • Edit• Reply•Share ›
Avatar
Steven Vance  Close Call Database • 10 hours ago
What's the purpose of hiding reports from unregistered users?
1  • Reply•Share ›
Avatar
Close Call Database  Steven Vance • a few seconds ago
There are many things that I am not seeking, including; 1) needless controversy, 2) losing the cooperation of law enforcement, 3) legal issues, and 4) complete failure. I also want to improve, rather than exacerbate, the tensions between cyclists and motorists.

I can't think of a faster way to achieve those undesirable outcomes -- and to also discourage a significant number of cyclists from participating -- than making the reports public.

Now, having said that, you are technically incorrect. By default the reports are not public. But the reports can be selectively published. One report already is and I anticipate that others will be in the future.
 • Edit• Reply•Share ›
