On Dec 25th, 2014 I was riding my bike northbound and uphill on Tunnel Road. A cylist and a silver Landrover with the vanity plate "WINEKAT" were traveling southbound, coming down the hill.

There is a blind corner on Tunnel Road that requires extra caution. At that corner the travel lanes narrow significantly and visibility is limited. The posted speed limit for downhill traffic at that corner is posted as 15 mph. It's at that corner that the incident occurred.

The driver wished to overtake and pass the cyclist he or she was trailing. Rather than wait until it was safe to do so, the driver elected to pass the cyclist while entering the blind corner and crossed into the on-coming traffic lane to do so. That is the lane where I was riding. Though I was traveling at the edge of my lane it is quite narrow at that point and since the vehicle was occupying almost all of my lane, a collision was possible. To avoid hitting me, the driver quickly cut back to right, cutting off the cylist they were attempting to pass. Both cyclists had to change speed and course of travel to prevent a collision. The speed limit at that blind corner is 15 mph and I estimate the driver was going at least twice that speed.

It should be noted that this vehicle has been mentioned in some local email threads for making similar unsafe maneuvers in this area in the past. The Oakland Police Department (OPD) have been notified about this vehicle at least once due to prior incidents. I did not report this particular incident to the OPD.




A southbound (i.e. downhill) silver Landrover with the vanity plate "WINEKAT" coming made an unsafe pass of a cyclist (also travelling downhill) by coming into the oncoming lane on a blind turn.  I was riding in the oncoming (uphill) lane near the right hand verge of the road.  There is no bike lane, and the road narrows to barely 2 full lanes around this turn...which is signed a 15mph on the downhill side.  The driver was doing at least twice that.  The vehicle was fully in my lane and dodged quickly back to avoid hitting me, nearly cutting off the downhill rider he was passing, Luckily, both myself and the other rider we paying attention and were able to change our path and speed to avoid a crash.  There are a couple local email threads of this same driver/vehicle making similar unsafe maneuvers in this area.  Local PD were alerted to at least one other incident.  However, I did not report this incident to the OPD.